docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/upgrade_helper.mdx, before:

---
id: upgrade-helper
title: Upgrading from V2 to V3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import messagePropChangeBefore from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_before.png';
import messagePropChangeAfter from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_after.png';
import attachmentPicker from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/attachment_picker.png';

For version 3.x of the Stream Chat React Native SDK, we focused on improving the speed and performance of our UI components to create a fast and responsive chat experience for the end user. Some of the key changes we made include, changes to the architecture of the SDK to provide better performance and improved 

- Prominent use [React Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to make passing data through the application easier.
- The addition of `OverlayProvider` a new component that wraps the application and lets users interact with messages through long-clicks.
- Better support for Typescript.
- Simpler UI Theming.
- The addition of new community libraries to improve performance and add more features to the end user's experience.

To make these improvements, we made major architectural changes to the SDK. Because of this, upgrading will require some additional work. This page will walk you through the steps involved in upgrading the React Native SDK for Stream Chat from version 2 to version 3.


### Before starting

Before you begin the upgrade, we recommend commenting-out all Stream Chat SDK v2 props related to theming and custom components for `ChannelList`, `Channel`, `MessageList` and `MessageInput` in your application.
This this will let you test the setup for the upgrade independently from customizations.

#### Add peer-dependencies

Stream Chat v3 includes new peer-dependencies for the package. You can use this script to install the dependencies:

```bash
yarn add @react-native-community/blur @react-native-community/cameraroll @react-native-community/netinfo @stream-io/flat-list-mvcp react-native-document-picker react-native-fs react-native-gesture-handler react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-image-crop-picker react-native-image-resizer react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-share react-native-svg
```

After adding these dependencies, go through following links and follow any additional installation steps:

- `react-native` - [additional installation steps](https://reactnative.dev/docs/image#gif-and-webp-support-on-android)
- `react-native-reanimated` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/installation).
- `react-native-image-crop-picker` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/ivpusic/react-native-image-crop-picker#step-3)
- `react-native-cameraroll` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/react-native-cameraroll/react-native-cameraroll#permissions)
- `react-native-gesture-handler` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-gesture-handler/docs/#android)
- `@react-native-community/blur` - [additional installation steps](/reactnative/basics/troubleshooting#blurview-crashing)

If you are using expo, the please install the corresponding dependencies instead.

```bash
expo install @react-native-community/netinfo expo-blur expo-document-picker expo-file-system expo-haptics expo-image-manipulator expo-image-picker expo-media-library expo-sharing react-native-gesture-handler react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-svg
```

#### Remove `react-native-get-random-values`

v2 required that you have `react-native-get-random-values` and import it into your application in your root file; Version 3 no longer uses this. As long as you aren't using `react-native-get-random-values` for anything other than Stream Chat's peer dependency, you can safely remove it by removing it from your package.json: 

```bash
yarn remove react-native-get-random-values
```

And deleting the import statement for `react-native-get-random-values` from your root (`index.js`/`index.ts`) file:

```tsx {1}
import * from react-native-get-random-values; // <-- REMOVE THIS
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Import gesture handler dependency

v3 requires you to import the gesture handler dependency at the top of your application's entry file (usually your App.js or index.js) before any other dependencies:

```tsx {1}
import 'react-native-gesture-handler';
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Add `stream-chat@3.x.x` dependency

The minimum supported version of `stream-chat` - v3.x.
Please check the [Compatibility Table](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native#-react-native-compatibility) to ensure you are using
correct version of `stream-chat` dependency.

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@3.11.1
```

### Add `OverlayProvider` component

[`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx) component is new to version three and you will need to add it to your application. The `OverlayProvider` should wrap the entire chat screen in your application. If you are using react-navigation, this component
should wrap your stack provider. Please read more details in our [Configuring Components docs](../basics/hello_stream_chat.mdx#configuring-ui-components)

```tsx
import { OverlayProvider } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

export const Screen = () =>
  <OverlayProvider>
    {/** App components */}
  </OverlayProvider>
```

### Theme changes

v2 of SDK used [Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/) for theming purpose, which we have abondoned in v3.
So following pattern of theming will **NOT** work anymore

```tsx
const theme = {
  'message.actionSheet.titleContainer': `background-color: 'black', padding: 10px`,
  'message.actionSheet.titleText': `color: 'white'`,
};

<Chat client={chatClient} style={theme}>
</Chat>
```

We have published a separate [guide](../customization/theming.mdx) for how to apply custom theme on chat components.


At this point if you launch the application, it should be working fine (assuming all the component customizations have been commented out) 🎉.

### Message customization prop change

Message UI is the most common usecase for customization. In v2 of the library, you could provide a `Message` prop to `MessageList` component
to customize message UI. But in v3, you need to provide `MessageSimple` prop on the [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#messagesimple) component instead.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeBefore}/>
    </td>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeAfter}/>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>
  <tr>
    <td align='center'>Before upgrade to v3</td>
    <td align='center'>After upgrade to v3</td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Moving from prop drilling to context

As part of v3, we have tried to get rid of prop drilling pattern as much as possible. We are moving towards using [React's context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)
based architecture.

Let's take an [example](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native/wiki/Cookbook-(2.x.x)#senders-name-at-bottom-of-the-message) from v2 documentation
which shows how to render message sender's name at bottom of the message:

To customize `MessageFooter`, you had to create a separate component to render a `MessageSimple` component and then provide `MessageFooter` as a prop to `MessageSimple`. This is what the prop drilling looked like in v2 of the SDK. This approach was rigid and made updating components a chore.

In v3, we're using React contexts to simplify this process. Now, thanks to contexts, you can customize each of these deeply nested components
by providing a relevant prop to one of the following 3 core components (depending on which component needs to be customized). React contexts will  will provide the prop to all of the child components in nested in the core components as global-like data.

- [`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#props)
- [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#props)
- [`ChannelList`](../core-components/channel_list.mdx#props)

Additionally you have access to all the required values through contexts (`props.message` in this example).
Please check documentation of [contexts](../customization/contexts.mdx) for all the available contexts.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, MessageSimple } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom = props => {
      return (
        <MessageSimple
          {...props}
          MessageFooter={props => <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel}>
        <MessageList Message={MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom} />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const FooterWithSenderName = () => {
      const { message } = useMessageContext();

      return <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>;
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel} MessageFooter={FooterWithSenderName}>
        <MessageList />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


Let's check a similar example for [`ChannelList`](../core-component/channel_list.mdx) component. To customize avatar component of channel, within `ChannelList`, you had to
first customize `Preview` component which renders list item, and then provide avatar component on it. In v3, you can simply pass the `PreviewAvatar`
component on `ChannelList` without having to go through prop drilling. Additionally you have access to [`ChannelsContext`](../contexts/channels_context.mdx)
which provides access to all the necessary values and methods which `ChannelList` relies on.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, ChannelPreviewMessenger } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {/* custom component */};
    const PreviewWithCustomAvatar = props => {
      return (
        <ChannelPreviewMessenger
          {...props}
          PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList Preview={PreviewWithCustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, useChannelsContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {
      const { refreshing, reloadList } = useChannelsContext();
      const { channel } = props;

      return (/* custom component */)
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Message action changes

In v2 of the library, message actions such as "Copy Message", "Edit Message" etc, were rendered in actionsheet. In v3 of the library these
actions get rendered within the overlay when a user long-presses the message. Also, we have provided finer control over customizing these actions
according to your use case. Please take a look at guide for [customizing message actions](./message_actions_customization.mdx) for reference.

### Reaction customization changes

Rendering of reactions on message and reaction picker has changed as part of v3. There three major differences in reactions related UX.

- Reactions were rendered as simple text emojis in v2, while reactions get rendered as SVG icons in v3.
- Reaction picker used to show up as popup right above message in v2, on the other hand reaction picker will show up in overlay in v3.

Please check the guide on [Message with custom reactions](../guides/message-customization/#message-with-custom-reactions) for details.

Additionally please take a look at following props to customize reactions related components:

- [`OverlayReactions`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactions)
- [`OverlayReactionList`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactionlist)
- [`ReactionList`](../core-components/channel.mdx#reactionlist)

### Attachment picker changes

In v2 of the library, attachment picker was rendendered as actionsheet containing option for picking files from of native image and file picker.
We've modified this UX in v3. In the new version, attachment picker gets rendered as built-in bottomsheet.

<img src={attachmentPicker} />

Its possible to use actionsheet based attachment picker (similar to v2 implementation). Please check the docs on [implementation of native image picker](../guides/message_input_customization.mdx#replacing-attachmentpicker-with-native-image-picker)

Commit message:

docs: Update theme section
Removing the what not to do section. Having a code example of what not to do without a code example of what to do. This is just partly because a common pattern for doc use is for developers to skim it for code samples.

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/upgrade_helper.mdx, after:

---
id: upgrade-helper
title: Upgrading from V2 to V3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import messagePropChangeBefore from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_before.png';
import messagePropChangeAfter from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_after.png';
import attachmentPicker from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/attachment_picker.png';

For version 3.x of the Stream Chat React Native SDK, we focused on improving the speed and performance of our UI components to create a fast and responsive chat experience for the end user. Some of the key changes we made include, changes to the architecture of the SDK to provide better performance and improved 

- Prominent use [React Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to make passing data through the application easier.
- The addition of `OverlayProvider` a new component that wraps the application and lets users interact with messages through long-clicks.
- Better support for Typescript.
- Simpler UI Theming.
- The addition of new community libraries to improve performance and add more features to the end user's experience.

To make these improvements, we made major architectural changes to the SDK. Because of this, upgrading will require some additional work. This page will walk you through the steps involved in upgrading the React Native SDK for Stream Chat from version 2 to version 3.


### Before starting

Before you begin the upgrade, we recommend commenting-out all Stream Chat SDK v2 props related to theming and custom components for `ChannelList`, `Channel`, `MessageList` and `MessageInput` in your application.
This this will let you test the setup for the upgrade independently from customizations.

#### Add peer-dependencies

Stream Chat v3 includes new peer-dependencies for the package. You can use this script to install the dependencies:

```bash
yarn add @react-native-community/blur @react-native-community/cameraroll @react-native-community/netinfo @stream-io/flat-list-mvcp react-native-document-picker react-native-fs react-native-gesture-handler react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-image-crop-picker react-native-image-resizer react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-share react-native-svg
```

After adding these dependencies, go through following links and follow any additional installation steps:

- `react-native` - [additional installation steps](https://reactnative.dev/docs/image#gif-and-webp-support-on-android)
- `react-native-reanimated` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/installation).
- `react-native-image-crop-picker` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/ivpusic/react-native-image-crop-picker#step-3)
- `react-native-cameraroll` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/react-native-cameraroll/react-native-cameraroll#permissions)
- `react-native-gesture-handler` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-gesture-handler/docs/#android)
- `@react-native-community/blur` - [additional installation steps](/reactnative/basics/troubleshooting#blurview-crashing)

If you are using expo, the please install the corresponding dependencies instead.

```bash
expo install @react-native-community/netinfo expo-blur expo-document-picker expo-file-system expo-haptics expo-image-manipulator expo-image-picker expo-media-library expo-sharing react-native-gesture-handler react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-svg
```

#### Remove `react-native-get-random-values`

v2 required that you have `react-native-get-random-values` and import it into your application in your root file; Version 3 no longer uses this. As long as you aren't using `react-native-get-random-values` for anything other than Stream Chat's peer dependency, you can safely remove it by removing it from your package.json: 

```bash
yarn remove react-native-get-random-values
```

And deleting the import statement for `react-native-get-random-values` from your root (`index.js`/`index.ts`) file:

```tsx {1}
import * from react-native-get-random-values; // <-- REMOVE THIS
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Import gesture handler dependency

v3 requires you to import the gesture handler dependency at the top of your application's entry file (usually your App.js or index.js) before any other dependencies:

```tsx {1}
import 'react-native-gesture-handler';
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Add `stream-chat@3.x.x` dependency

The minimum supported version of `stream-chat` - v3.x.
Please check the [Compatibility Table](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native#-react-native-compatibility) to ensure you are using
correct version of `stream-chat` dependency.

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@3.11.1
```

### Add `OverlayProvider` component

[`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx) component is new to version three and you will need to add it to your application. The `OverlayProvider` should wrap the entire chat screen in your application. If you are using react-navigation, this component
should wrap your stack provider. Please read more details in our [Configuring Components docs](../basics/hello_stream_chat.mdx#configuring-ui-components)

```tsx
import { OverlayProvider } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

export const Screen = () =>
  <OverlayProvider>
    {/** App components */}
  </OverlayProvider>
```

### Theme changes

v2 of SDK used [Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/) for theming purpose, which we have abondoned in v3 in favor of using the default approach for React Native style sheets. We've published a separate [guide](../customization/theming.mdx) for how to apply custom theme on chat components.

At this point if you launch the application, it should be working fine (assuming all the component customizations have been commented out) 🎉.

### Message customization prop change

Message UI is the most common usecase for customization. In v2 of the library, you could provide a `Message` prop to `MessageList` component
to customize message UI. But in v3, you need to provide `MessageSimple` prop on the [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#messagesimple) component instead.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeBefore}/>
    </td>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeAfter}/>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>
  <tr>
    <td align='center'>Before upgrade to v3</td>
    <td align='center'>After upgrade to v3</td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Moving from prop drilling to context

As part of v3, we have tried to get rid of prop drilling pattern as much as possible. We are moving towards using [React's context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)
based architecture.

Let's take an [example](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native/wiki/Cookbook-(2.x.x)#senders-name-at-bottom-of-the-message) from v2 documentation
which shows how to render message sender's name at bottom of the message:

To customize `MessageFooter`, you had to create a separate component to render a `MessageSimple` component and then provide `MessageFooter` as a prop to `MessageSimple`. This is what the prop drilling looked like in v2 of the SDK. This approach was rigid and made updating components a chore.

In v3, we're using React contexts to simplify this process. Now, thanks to contexts, you can customize each of these deeply nested components
by providing a relevant prop to one of the following 3 core components (depending on which component needs to be customized). React contexts will  will provide the prop to all of the child components in nested in the core components as global-like data.

- [`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#props)
- [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#props)
- [`ChannelList`](../core-components/channel_list.mdx#props)

Additionally you have access to all the required values through contexts (`props.message` in this example).
Please check documentation of [contexts](../customization/contexts.mdx) for all the available contexts.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, MessageSimple } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom = props => {
      return (
        <MessageSimple
          {...props}
          MessageFooter={props => <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel}>
        <MessageList Message={MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom} />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const FooterWithSenderName = () => {
      const { message } = useMessageContext();

      return <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>;
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel} MessageFooter={FooterWithSenderName}>
        <MessageList />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


Let's check a similar example for [`ChannelList`](../core-component/channel_list.mdx) component. To customize avatar component of channel, within `ChannelList`, you had to
first customize `Preview` component which renders list item, and then provide avatar component on it. In v3, you can simply pass the `PreviewAvatar`
component on `ChannelList` without having to go through prop drilling. Additionally you have access to [`ChannelsContext`](../contexts/channels_context.mdx)
which provides access to all the necessary values and methods which `ChannelList` relies on.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, ChannelPreviewMessenger } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {/* custom component */};
    const PreviewWithCustomAvatar = props => {
      return (
        <ChannelPreviewMessenger
          {...props}
          PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList Preview={PreviewWithCustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, useChannelsContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {
      const { refreshing, reloadList } = useChannelsContext();
      const { channel } = props;

      return (/* custom component */)
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Message action changes

In v2 of the library, message actions such as "Copy Message", "Edit Message" etc, were rendered in actionsheet. In v3 of the library these
actions get rendered within the overlay when a user long-presses the message. Also, we have provided finer control over customizing these actions
according to your use case. Please take a look at guide for [customizing message actions](./message_actions_customization.mdx) for reference.

### Reaction customization changes

Rendering of reactions on message and reaction picker has changed as part of v3. There three major differences in reactions related UX.

- Reactions were rendered as simple text emojis in v2, while reactions get rendered as SVG icons in v3.
- Reaction picker used to show up as popup right above message in v2, on the other hand reaction picker will show up in overlay in v3.

Please check the guide on [Message with custom reactions](../guides/message-customization/#message-with-custom-reactions) for details.

Additionally please take a look at following props to customize reactions related components:

- [`OverlayReactions`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactions)
- [`OverlayReactionList`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactionlist)
- [`ReactionList`](../core-components/channel.mdx#reactionlist)

### Attachment picker changes

In v2 of the library, attachment picker was rendendered as actionsheet containing option for picking files from of native image and file picker.
We've modified this UX in v3. In the new version, attachment picker gets rendered as built-in bottomsheet.

<img src={attachmentPicker} />

Its possible to use actionsheet based attachment picker (similar to v2 implementation). Please check the docs on [implementation of native image picker](../guides/message_input_customization.mdx#replacing-attachmentpicker-with-native-image-picker)
