docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/video_attachment.mdx, before:

---
id: video-attachment
sidebar_position: 6
title: Video Attachment
---

We will build a custom video component in the application using some of the available open-source packages and using the [`FileAttachment`](../../core-components/channel#fileattachment) customization prop which the `Channel` component allows us to use.

Uploading a video attachment is possible using the file upload in the attachment picker.

To add the video attachment and view the video we follow these steps:

## Installing the packages

We use two packages for rendering the video and creating the thumbnail of the video.
For rendering the video in the message list we recommend using the [react-native-video](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-video) package.
To create the thumbnail of the video attachment we recommend using the [react-native-create-thumbnail](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail) package.

:::note

[react-native-video](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-video) and [react-native-create-thumbnail](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail) are external packages.

:::

After installing it, if you encounter any problems, please refer the guide in the installation and troubleshooting guidelines for `react-native-video` - [here](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video#installation) and for `react-native-create-thumbnail` - [here](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail#getting-started).

After the package is installed, we can use the `Video` component it provides to render video.

## Setting up the navigation

We will have two screens `ChannelScreen` and the `VideoDisplayScreen`. The `ChannelScreen` will have the Channel component and the `FileAttachment` prop will take the `FileAttachmentPreview` component. The `VideoDisplayScreen` renders the video.

We set up the stack navigation as:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { createStackNavigator } from '@react-navigation/stack';
import { ChannelScreen } from './src/screens/ChannelScreen';
import { VideoDisplayScreen } from './src/screens/VideoDisplayScreen';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

const ChannelModule = () => {
  return (
    <Stack.Navigator initialRouteName='ChatScreen'>
      <Stack.Screen component={ChannelScreen} name='ChannelScreen' />
      <Stack.Screen component={VideoDisplayScreen} name='VideoDisplayScreen' />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
};
```

The `ChannelScreen` component uses the Channel component's prop `FileAttachment` as follows:

```jsx
<Channel
  channel={channel}
  FileAttachment={({ attachment }) => {
    const onPressVideo = () => {
      navigation.navigate('VideoDisplayScreen', {
        attachment,
      });
    };
    return <FileAttachmentPreview attachment={attachment} onPress={onPressVideo} />;
  }}
>
  {/* Underlying components */}
</Channel>
```

## Creating a Video Card Thumbnail component

To create a video thumbnail we have already installed the package `react-native-create-thumbnail`. This package takes in the attachment `asset_url` and returns the thumbnail image URL after saving it to the local file directory. You can also cache the file so that it doesn't get saved every time the screen is loaded.

In our tutorial, we render the thumbnail in the `ImageBackground` component. We have added a `Play` button on the thumbnail, and on clicking the button, a screen opens up with the video rendered therein.

The example is as follows:

```jsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { ImageBackground, StyleSheet, TouchableOpacity } from 'react-native';
import { Attachment } from 'stream-chat';
import { FileAttachment, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';
import { createThumbnail } from 'react-native-create-thumbnail';
import { Play } from '../icons/Play';

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  backgroundVideo: {
    height: 200,
    width: 250,
  },
  image: {
    borderBottomLeftRadius: 14,
    borderTopLeftRadius: 14,
    borderTopRightRadius: 14,
  },
  playButton: {
    marginBottom: 'auto',
    marginLeft: 'auto',
    marginRight: 'auto',
    marginTop: 'auto',
    position: 'relative',
  },
});

export const FileAttachmentPreview = ({ attachment, onPress }) => {
  const [thumbnail, setThumbnail] = useState(null);
  const { onLongPress } = useMessageContext();

  useEffect(() => {
    createThumbnail({
      cacheName: attachment.title,
      format: 'png',
      url: attachment.asset_url,
    })
      .then(response => {
        setThumbnail(response.path);
      })
      .catch(error => {
        console.log(error);
      });
  }, [attachment]);

  const isVideo = attachment.type === 'video';

  if (isVideo) {
    return (
      <TouchableOpacity
        onLongPress={event => {
          if (onLongPress) {
            onLongPress({
              emitter: 'gallery',
              event,
            });
          }
        }}
        onPress={onPress}
      >
        <ImageBackground imageStyle={styles.image} source={{ uri: thumbnail }} style={styles.backgroundVideo}>
          <Play fill={'#fff'} height={50} style={styles.playButton} width={50} />
        </ImageBackground>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    );
  } else {
    return <FileAttachment attachment={attachment} />;
  }
};
```

The `onPress` prop is a handler that triggers the navigation to the VideoDisplay screen.
To cache the thumbnail in the local file system we should provide the name of the file using which it will be saved in the directory.

## Rendering the video component

We use the `react-native-video` package to render the video component. An example for the same is as follows:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { RouteProp } from '@react-navigation/native';
import { StackNavigationProp } from '@react-navigation/stack';
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import Video from 'react-native-video';

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  backgroundVideo: {
    height: '100%',
    width: '100%',
  },
});

export const VideoDisplayScreen = ({
  route: {
    params: { attachment },
  },
}) => (
  <Video
    controls={true}
    key={attachment.asset_url}
    paused={false}
    resizeMode='none'
    source={{ uri: attachment.asset_url }}
    style={styles.backgroundVideo}
  />
);
```

:::note

There are several features that can be customized in the Video component for which you can refer to the documentation [here](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video#configurable-props).

:::

:::info
There's a noticeable problem that when you upload a video from android and try to render it on an ios device, it doesn't render.

Error:

```
[Error: Error Domain=AVFoundationErrorDomain Code=-11800 "The operation could not be completed" UserInfo={NSLocalizedFailureReason=An unknown error occurred (1718449215), NSLocalizedDescription=The operation could not be completed, NSUnderlyingError=0x600002c70450 {Error Domain=NSOSStatusErrorDomain Code=1718449215 "(null)" UserInfo={AVErrorFourCharCode='fmt?'}}}]
```

The following [issues](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video/issues?q=is%3Aissue+Error+Domain%3DAVFoundationErrorDomain+is%3Aclosed) are the reference to the problem in the package `react-native-video`.

This happens for `mp4` file format and works fine for `mov`.

Note: Android records video in `mp4` while iOS records it in `mov` format.
:::

Commit message:

docs: change after video upload from image picker

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/video_attachment.mdx, after:

---
id: video-attachment
sidebar_position: 6
title: Video Attachment
---

We will build a custom video component in the application using some of the available open-source packages and using the [`FileAttachment`](../../core-components/channel#fileattachment) customization prop which the `Channel` component allows us to use.

Uploading a video attachment is possible using the file and image picker in the attachment picker. Currently, uploading a video from an image picker uploads the video as a file.

To add the video attachment and view the video we follow these steps:

## Installing the packages

We use two packages for rendering the video and creating the thumbnail of the video.
For rendering the video in the message list we recommend using the [react-native-video](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-video) package.
To create the thumbnail of the video attachment we recommend using the [react-native-create-thumbnail](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail) package.

:::note

[react-native-video](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-video) and [react-native-create-thumbnail](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail) are external packages.

:::

After installing it, if you encounter any problems, please refer the guide in the installation and troubleshooting guidelines for `react-native-video` - [here](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video#installation) and for `react-native-create-thumbnail` - [here](https://github.com/souvik-ghosh/react-native-create-thumbnail#getting-started).

After the package is installed, we can use the `Video` component it provides to render video.

## Setting up the navigation

We will have two screens `ChannelScreen` and the `VideoDisplayScreen`. The `ChannelScreen` will have the Channel component and the `FileAttachment` prop will take the `FileAttachmentPreview` component. The `VideoDisplayScreen` renders the video.

We set up the stack navigation as:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { createStackNavigator } from '@react-navigation/stack';
import { ChannelScreen } from './src/screens/ChannelScreen';
import { VideoDisplayScreen } from './src/screens/VideoDisplayScreen';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

const ChannelModule = () => {
  return (
    <Stack.Navigator initialRouteName='ChatScreen'>
      <Stack.Screen component={ChannelScreen} name='ChannelScreen' />
      <Stack.Screen component={VideoDisplayScreen} name='VideoDisplayScreen' />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
};
```

The `ChannelScreen` component uses the Channel component's prop `FileAttachment` as follows:

```jsx
<Channel
  channel={channel}
  FileAttachment={({ attachment }) => {
    const onPressVideo = () => {
      navigation.navigate('VideoDisplayScreen', {
        attachment,
      });
    };
    return <FileAttachmentPreview attachment={attachment} onPress={onPressVideo} />;
  }}
>
  {/* Underlying components */}
</Channel>
```

## Creating a Video Card Thumbnail component

To create a video thumbnail we have already installed the package `react-native-create-thumbnail`. This package takes in the attachment `asset_url` and returns the thumbnail image URL after saving it to the local file directory. You can also cache the file so that it doesn't get saved every time the screen is loaded.

In our tutorial, we render the thumbnail in the `ImageBackground` component. We have added a `Play` button on the thumbnail, and on clicking the button, a screen opens up with the video rendered therein.

The example is as follows:

```jsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { ImageBackground, StyleSheet, TouchableOpacity } from 'react-native';
import { Attachment } from 'stream-chat';
import { FileAttachment, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';
import { createThumbnail } from 'react-native-create-thumbnail';
import { Play } from '../icons/Play';

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  backgroundVideo: {
    height: 200,
    width: 250,
  },
  image: {
    borderBottomLeftRadius: 14,
    borderTopLeftRadius: 14,
    borderTopRightRadius: 14,
  },
  playButton: {
    marginBottom: 'auto',
    marginLeft: 'auto',
    marginRight: 'auto',
    marginTop: 'auto',
    position: 'relative',
  },
});

export const FileAttachmentPreview = ({ attachment, onPress }) => {
  const [thumbnail, setThumbnail] = useState(null);
  const { onLongPress } = useMessageContext();

  useEffect(() => {
    createThumbnail({
      cacheName: attachment.title,
      format: 'png',
      url: attachment.asset_url,
    })
      .then(response => {
        setThumbnail(response.path);
      })
      .catch(error => {
        console.log(error);
      });
  }, [attachment]);

  const isVideo = attachment.type === 'video';

  if (isVideo) {
    return (
      <TouchableOpacity
        onLongPress={event => {
          if (onLongPress) {
            onLongPress({
              emitter: 'gallery',
              event,
            });
          }
        }}
        onPress={onPress}
      >
        <ImageBackground imageStyle={styles.image} source={{ uri: thumbnail }} style={styles.backgroundVideo}>
          <Play fill={'#fff'} height={50} style={styles.playButton} width={50} />
        </ImageBackground>
      </TouchableOpacity>
    );
  } else {
    return <FileAttachment attachment={attachment} />;
  }
};
```

The `onPress` prop is a handler that triggers the navigation to the VideoDisplay screen.
To cache the thumbnail in the local file system we should provide the name of the file using which it will be saved in the directory.

## Rendering the video component

We use the `react-native-video` package to render the video component. An example for the same is as follows:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { RouteProp } from '@react-navigation/native';
import { StackNavigationProp } from '@react-navigation/stack';
import { StyleSheet } from 'react-native';
import Video from 'react-native-video';

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  backgroundVideo: {
    height: '100%',
    width: '100%',
  },
});

export const VideoDisplayScreen = ({
  route: {
    params: { attachment },
  },
}) => (
  <Video
    controls={true}
    key={attachment.asset_url}
    paused={false}
    resizeMode='none'
    source={{ uri: attachment.asset_url }}
    style={styles.backgroundVideo}
  />
);
```

:::note

There are several features that can be customized in the Video component for which you can refer to the documentation [here](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video#configurable-props).

:::

:::info
There's a noticeable problem that when you upload a video from android and try to render it on an ios device, it doesn't render.

Error:

```
[Error: Error Domain=AVFoundationErrorDomain Code=-11800 "The operation could not be completed" UserInfo={NSLocalizedFailureReason=An unknown error occurred (1718449215), NSLocalizedDescription=The operation could not be completed, NSUnderlyingError=0x600002c70450 {Error Domain=NSOSStatusErrorDomain Code=1718449215 "(null)" UserInfo={AVErrorFourCharCode='fmt?'}}}]
```

The following [issues](https://github.com/react-native-video/react-native-video/issues?q=is%3Aissue+Error+Domain%3DAVFoundationErrorDomain+is%3Aclosed) are the reference to the problem in the package `react-native-video`.

This happens for `mp4` file format and works fine for `mov`.

Note: Android records video in `mp4` while iOS records it in `mov` format.
:::
