docusaurus/docs/reactnative/basics/offline_support.mdx, before:

---
id: offline-support
sidebar_position: 6
title: Offline Support
---

React Native Chat SDK provides OOTB support for offline mode, which means user will be able to access and interact
with chat even when the network is off. This is an opt-in feature that needs to be explicitely enabled on application
level.

> Offline support is currently not implemented for Expo package (stream-chat-expo).

## Features

The offline storage implementation currently offers the following features:

- Access to chat when Internet connection is disabled or low.
- Faster startup times and loading, since initial data is loaded from offline storage before performing any network requests.
- Syncing of the offline database using WebSocket events and Sync API.

The following features are currently **NOT** implemented. They will be implemented gradually as part of minor releases in v5.

- Optimistically update offline database during chat interactions, such as send message, add reaction, etc.
- Access to threads in offline mode.

## How To Enable Offline Support

First and foremost make sure to follow all steps from [Migrating to v5](./upgrade_helper.mdx) guide.
To enable offline support, please follow the given steps:

1. **Upgrade stream-chat dependency (optional)**

If you have installed `stream-chat` dependency explicitly on your application, then upgrade it to v7:

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@7.0.0
```

2. **Add `react-native-quick-sqlite` dependency**

```bash
  yarn add react-native-quick-sqlite
  npx pod-install
```

3. **Do not wait for `connectUser` call to succeed**

It is important that you call the `connectUser` method on the chat client, before you render Chat components.
But you don't need to wait for `connectUser` to succeed before rendering Chat components. This is to ensure:

- Chat components have access to current user information, which is important to store/access offline data.
- In case of slow or no network access, Chat components will still load the chat data without waiting for `connectUser` to succeed.

  ```tsx {7,8,16}
  const chatClient = StreamChat.getInstance('API_KEY');
  const App = () => {
    const [isClientReady, setIsClientReady] = useState(false);

    useEffect(() => {
      const startChat = async () => {
        const connectPromise = chatClient.connectUser(user, tokenOrTokenProvider);
        setIsClientReady(true); // this allows components to render
        await connectPromise();
        // Any other post-connectUser logic you may have goes here.
      };

      startChat();
    }, []);

    if (!isClientReady) return null; // or some loading indicator;

    return (
      <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
        ...
      </Chat>
    );
  };
  ```

4. **Add `enableOfflineSupport` prop on Chat component**

```tsx
import { Chat } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

<Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
  ...
</Chat>;
```

5. **Reset the database when signing out the user**

Since the SDK doesn't handle app-level authentication logic, it's the application's responsibility
to ensure the database is reset when a user gets logged out. This should generally be done before you
call `client.disconnectUser()`.

```tsx
import { QuickSqliteClient } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

// Sign out logic
QuickSqliteClient.resetDB();
chatClient.disconnectUser();
```

## How To Cache Images

> Available since version 5.3.0

Our SDK relies on the default caching provided by React Native (avatars, image attachments, URL preview, etc.).
This default solution is far from perfect, and you might see a lot of images missing while operating the app in offline mode.
We provide a convenient solution to replace all the underlying usage of the [`Image`](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/image) component using the `ImageComponent` prop on the `Chat` component.
Use the `ImageComponent` prop to provide a custom component that handles caching and has the same API as react-native's `Image` component.

There are plenty of libraries available for this purpose:

- [`react-native-fast-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fast-image)
- [`react-native-progressive-fast-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@freakycoder/react-native-progressive-fast-image)
- [`react-native-cached-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-cached-image)

> **NOTE**: Due to technical limitations, viewing images in full screen (image viewer) in offline mode is not currently supported.

The following example demonstrates the usage of `react-native-fast-image` library to handle the caching of images in chat:

```tsx
import FastImage from 'react-native-fast-image';

...

<Chat
  client={chatClient}
  enableOfflineSupport
  ImageComponent={FastImage}
/>
```

Commit message:

docs: added sqlite dependency version explicitely in offline support docs (#1795)

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/basics/offline_support.mdx, after:

---
id: offline-support
sidebar_position: 6
title: Offline Support
---

React Native Chat SDK provides OOTB support for offline mode, which means user will be able to access and interact
with chat even when the network is off. This is an opt-in feature that needs to be explicitely enabled on application
level.

> Offline support is currently not implemented for Expo package (stream-chat-expo).

## Features

The offline storage implementation currently offers the following features:

- Access to chat when Internet connection is disabled or low.
- Faster startup times and loading, since initial data is loaded from offline storage before performing any network requests.
- Syncing of the offline database using WebSocket events and Sync API.

The following features are currently **NOT** implemented. They will be implemented gradually as part of minor releases in v5.

- Optimistically update offline database during chat interactions, such as send message, add reaction, etc.
- Access to threads in offline mode.

## How To Enable Offline Support

First and foremost make sure to follow all steps from [Migrating to v5](./upgrade_helper.mdx) guide.
To enable offline support, please follow the given steps:

1. **Upgrade stream-chat dependency (optional)**

If you have installed `stream-chat` dependency explicitly on your application, then upgrade it to v7:

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@7.0.0
```

2. **Add `react-native-quick-sqlite` dependency**

> At the moment, support for only v4 of `react-native-quick-sqlite` is available.
> Support for v5 of `react-native-quick-sqlite` will be introduced in one of the upcoming minor release.

```bash
  yarn add react-native-quick-sqlite@4.0.8
  npx pod-install
```

3. **Do not wait for `connectUser` call to succeed**

It is important that you call the `connectUser` method on the chat client, before you render Chat components.
But you don't need to wait for `connectUser` to succeed before rendering Chat components. This is to ensure:

- Chat components have access to current user information, which is important to store/access offline data.
- In case of slow or no network access, Chat components will still load the chat data without waiting for `connectUser` to succeed.

  ```tsx {7,8,16}
  const chatClient = StreamChat.getInstance('API_KEY');
  const App = () => {
    const [isClientReady, setIsClientReady] = useState(false);

    useEffect(() => {
      const startChat = async () => {
        const connectPromise = chatClient.connectUser(user, tokenOrTokenProvider);
        setIsClientReady(true); // this allows components to render
        await connectPromise();
        // Any other post-connectUser logic you may have goes here.
      };

      startChat();
    }, []);

    if (!isClientReady) return null; // or some loading indicator;

    return (
      <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
        ...
      </Chat>
    );
  };
  ```

4. **Add `enableOfflineSupport` prop on Chat component**

```tsx
import { Chat } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

<Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
  ...
</Chat>;
```

5. **Reset the database when signing out the user**

Since the SDK doesn't handle app-level authentication logic, it's the application's responsibility
to ensure the database is reset when a user gets logged out. This should generally be done before you
call `client.disconnectUser()`.

```tsx
import { QuickSqliteClient } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

// Sign out logic
QuickSqliteClient.resetDB();
chatClient.disconnectUser();
```

## How To Cache Images

> Available since version 5.3.0

Our SDK relies on the default caching provided by React Native (avatars, image attachments, URL preview, etc.).
This default solution is far from perfect, and you might see a lot of images missing while operating the app in offline mode.
We provide a convenient solution to replace all the underlying usage of the [`Image`](https://reactnative.dev/docs/next/image) component using the `ImageComponent` prop on the `Chat` component.
Use the `ImageComponent` prop to provide a custom component that handles caching and has the same API as react-native's `Image` component.

There are plenty of libraries available for this purpose:

- [`react-native-fast-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-fast-image)
- [`react-native-progressive-fast-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@freakycoder/react-native-progressive-fast-image)
- [`react-native-cached-image`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-cached-image)

> **NOTE**: Due to technical limitations, viewing images in full screen (image viewer) in offline mode is not currently supported.

The following example demonstrates the usage of `react-native-fast-image` library to handle the caching of images in chat:

```tsx
import FastImage from 'react-native-fast-image';

...

<Chat
  client={chatClient}
  enableOfflineSupport
  ImageComponent={FastImage}
/>
```
