docusaurus/docs/reactnative/basics/upgrade_helper.mdx, before:

---
id: upgrading-from-v4
title: Upgrading from V4
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Update Camera Roll dependency

Replace the `@react-native-community/cameraroll` with `@stream-io/react-native-cameraroll`. We had to roll out our fork as `@react-native-community/cameraroll` is no longer accepting pull requests for important fixes like Android 11 compatibility.

```bash
# Remove existing cameraroll dependency
yarn remove @react-native-community/cameraroll

# Add stream-io's fork for cameraroll dependency.
yarn add @stream-io/react-native-cameraroll
```

## Enable Offline Support

Offline Support is a major opt-in feature introduced in v5 of SDK. To enable offline support please follow the given steps:

- **Add `react-native-quick-sqlite` dependency**

  ```bash
  yarn add react-native-quick-sqlite
  ```

- **Ensure unique instance of Chat component**

  Until v4, you could provide separate `Chat` component for each usage of `Channel` component or `ChannelList` component.
  But from v5, it is necessary that you provide only one instance of `Chat` component within your application.
  This component needs to be a parent for all the chat related components such as `ChannelList`, `Channel` or `Thread`.

- **Do not wait for `connectUser` call to succeed**

  It is important that you call `connectUser` method on chat client, before you render Chat components.
  But you don't need to wait for `connectUser` to succeed before rendering Chat components. This is to ensure:

  - Chat components have access to current user information, which is important to store/access offline data.
  - In case or slow or no network, Chat components will still load the chat data without waiting for connectUser to succeed.

  ```tsx {7,8,16}
  const chatClient = StreamChat.getInstance('API_KEY');
  const App = () => {
    const [isClientReady, setIsClientReady] = useState(false);

    useEffect(() => {
      const startChat = async () => {
        const connectPromise = chatClient.connectUser(user, tokenOrTokenProvider);
        setIsClientReady(true); // this allows components to render
        await connectPromise();
        // Any other post-connectUser logic you may have goes here.
      };

      startChat();
    }, []);

    if (!isClientReady) return null; // or some loading indicator;

    return (
      <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
        ...
      </Chat>
    );
  };
  ```

- **Add `enableOfflineSupport` prop on Chat component**

  ```tsx
  import { Chat } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

  <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
    ...
  </Chat>;
  ```

Commit message:

docs: update upgrade helper doc

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/basics/upgrade_helper.mdx, after:

---
id: upgrading-from-v4
title: Upgrading from V4
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Update Camera Roll dependency

Replace the `@react-native-community/cameraroll` with `@stream-io/react-native-cameraroll`. We had to roll out our fork as `@react-native-community/cameraroll` is no longer accepting pull requests for important fixes like Android 11 compatibility.

```bash
# Remove existing cameraroll dependency
yarn remove @react-native-community/cameraroll

# Add stream-io's fork for cameraroll dependency.
yarn add @stream-io/react-native-cameraroll
```

## Enable Offline Support

Offline Support is a major opt-in feature introduced in v5 of SDK.
Offline storage implementation currently offers following features:

- access to chat when internet is disabled
- faster loading of chat since chat gets loaded from offline storage first before loading data from network
- syncing of database using websocket events and sync api.

Following features are currently **NOT** implemented. They will be implemented gradually as part of minor releases in v5.

- optimistically update offline database during chat interactions such as send message, add reactions etc.
- access to threads in offline mode
- offline caching of attachment images and user images

To enable offline support please follow the given steps:

- **Add `react-native-quick-sqlite` dependency**

  ```bash
  yarn add react-native-quick-sqlite
  ```

- **Ensure unique instance of Chat component**

  Until v4, you could provide separate `Chat` component for each usage of `Channel` component or `ChannelList` component.
  But from v5, it is necessary that you provide only one instance of `Chat` component within your application.
  This component needs to be a parent for all the chat related components such as `ChannelList`, `Channel` or `Thread`.

- **Do not wait for `connectUser` call to succeed**

  It is important that you call `connectUser` method on chat client, before you render Chat components.
  But you don't need to wait for `connectUser` to succeed before rendering Chat components. This is to ensure:

  - Chat components have access to current user information, which is important to store/access offline data.
  - In case or slow or no network, Chat components will still load the chat data without waiting for connectUser to succeed.

  ```tsx {7,8,16}
  const chatClient = StreamChat.getInstance('API_KEY');
  const App = () => {
    const [isClientReady, setIsClientReady] = useState(false);

    useEffect(() => {
      const startChat = async () => {
        const connectPromise = chatClient.connectUser(user, tokenOrTokenProvider);
        setIsClientReady(true); // this allows components to render
        await connectPromise();
        // Any other post-connectUser logic you may have goes here.
      };

      startChat();
    }, []);

    if (!isClientReady) return null; // or some loading indicator;

    return (
      <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
        ...
      </Chat>
    );
  };
  ```

- **Add `enableOfflineSupport` prop on Chat component**

  ```tsx
  import { Chat } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

  <Chat client={chatClient} enableOfflineSupport>
    ...
  </Chat>;
  ```
