docusaurus/docs/reactnative/ui-components/channel_avatar.mdx, before:

---
id: channel-avatar
title: ChannelAvatar
---

import Channel from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/channel.mdx';

The `ChannelAvatar` is the UI component for rendering avatar/image for channel within `ChannelList` component.

![](../assets/api-references/components/channel-list/visual_guide_1.png)

## Basic Usage

You can have a custom channel preview message component by setting the `PreviewAvatar` prop on any of its parent UI components.

```jsx
import { 
  ChannelPreviewMessenger,
  useChannelPreviewDisplayAvatar,
  useChannelPreviewDisplayPresence,
} from 'stream-chat-react-native';

import { CustomGroupAvatar } from '...'; // your custom group avatar component
import { CustomAvatar } from '...'; // your custom avatar component

const CustomPreviewAvatar = ({ channel }) => {
  const displayAvatar = useChannelPreviewDisplayAvatar(channel);
  const displayPresence = useChannelPreviewDisplayPresence(channel);

  if (displayAvatar.images) {
    return <CustomGroupAvatar images={displayAvatar.images} names={displayAvatar.names} size={40} />;
  }

  return (
    <CustomAvatar
      image={displayAvatar.image}
      name={displayAvatar.name}
      online={displayPresence}
      size={40}
    />
  );
}

<ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomPreviewAvatar} />
```

## Props

### channel

<Channel/>

Commit message:

some updates to UI components

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/ui-components/channel_avatar.mdx, after:

---
id: channel-avatar
title: ChannelAvatar
---

import Channel from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/channel.mdx';

The `ChannelAvatar` is the default UI component for rendering avatar/image for channel within `ChannelList` component.

You can set `PreviewAvatar` prop on `ChannelList` component to replace this default component:

```jsx
import { 
  ChannelPreviewMessenger,
  useChannelPreviewDisplayAvatar,
  useChannelPreviewDisplayPresence,
} from 'stream-chat-react-native';

import { CustomGroupAvatar } from '...'; // your custom group avatar component
import { CustomAvatar } from '...'; // your custom avatar component

const CustomPreviewAvatar = ({ channel }) => {
  const displayAvatar = useChannelPreviewDisplayAvatar(channel);
  const displayPresence = useChannelPreviewDisplayPresence(channel);

  if (displayAvatar.images) {
    return <CustomGroupAvatar images={displayAvatar.images} names={displayAvatar.names} size={40} />;
  }

  return (
    <CustomAvatar
      image={displayAvatar.image}
      name={displayAvatar.name}
      online={displayPresence}
      size={40}
    />
  );
}

<ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomPreviewAvatar} />
```

## Props

### channel

<Channel/>
